the cyclocross world championships take
place in hoga hide in the netherlands
this year despite certain riders
dominance of much of the cross season
the worlds are always an open book here
RTC ends 10 riders to watch spend ace it
goes without saying that sven aces the
rider to watch at every race he starts
nasa's look to be on a roll in recent
weeks but the world championships
haven't always been a happy hunting
ground for him it's only windsor elite
level came in st. Wendel in 2005 and
last year in Louisville with his
previous two titles coming in sprint or
close finishes we're not expecting him
to ride away with this one either with
this in mind nice skip the final round
of the World Cup at norm a last weekend
in order to focus on peaking for the
worlds Tom musin tom musin has been on
the edge of becoming one of the big-name
cross riders for a number of years now
he tends to clock one or two big wins a
year this season he won the classic
Koppenberg cross but despite his ability
to win on his day he's yet to take a
medal at elite World Championship level
after a midseason law miios in his back
in flying form unluckily losing out due
to a mechanical at laven and winning the
final round of the World Cup at Nami
Katie Compton Katie Compton has been
dominant at World Cup level this year
and secured the overall title of one
round remaining Compton's best result at
a World Championships is second Maryanne
Abbas is proved to be a nemesis on the
day but with the full-time support of
Trek and after beating Voss on a number
of occasions this season could this be
Compton's year mariana Voss Mariana Voss
can't have started erases anything less
than the favourite for years Voss has
won six cross world titles and has held
the rainbow jersey since 2009 when the
race also took place in Hager Hyde Voss
rarely rides a full cross season in step
preferring to focus on national and
world championships the battle between
boss and a strong Katie Compton should
be fascinating match of Vanderpol
massive and appalled will be looking to
extend his undefeated streak at the
cross worlds Vanderpol won the rainbow
jersey in both his years in the Junior
category and has been a force to be
reckoned with at under 23 an elite-level
win in the under-23 World Cup and taking
Niels Albert to a sprint finish in the
elite race at Antwerp his first season
as an under-23 hasn't been without
challenge but he's never finished lower
than four
of place so we expect him to be on the
podium and in the race for the top step
well for not well fennel has been one of
the few hundred twenty three riders who
have challenged Macchio van der pol this
year a year older than van der pol van
art has gone on better than van der pol
by winning an elite race this year
something that the younger rider has
been closely doing but not accomplished
whenever conditions have become muddy
Verna has looked to have had the edge on
van der pol as seen in the final round
in the World Cup at Nami this could be
the race to watch at the Worlds this
year Santa can't for all their depth in
the men's races Belgium are weak on
numbers when it comes to women's racing
but despite being down on numbers the
Belgians will still feel the strong
cross team and that will be headed by
Senna can't can't has had two podiums in
the World Cups this year and his current
Belgian champion she is also the only
belgium female to medal at cross world
championships for a nation there's used
to sweeping podiums across world
championships the solitary bronze in the
women's event must hurt but any slip-ups
from Compton or Voss and Kant could be
the woman to end the Belgian gold medal
drought Francis Moray
along with Lars van de ha Francis Marais
is one of the two non Belgian riders
named as a threat by Belgian national
coach Rudi to be Marais was looking good
during the Worlds in Louisville last
year and pushed the pace early in the
race before fading away his World Cup
winning the more over Christmas showed
the ease in strong form this season and
he could be the one rider to disrupt any
plans that the Belgians might have to
sweep the elite men's podium Philippe
Val Sabin Val Sabin already has world
championship pedigree winning the
under-23 cross title in 2009 second
overall at the World Cup he's been a
nearly man all year and if he can turn
his consistency into on the day form he
will be a rider to watch lars van de ha
lars Vonderhaar goes into the elite race
at Hoag hide as the home favorite the
dutch haven't won an elite men's world
title since Lars Bohm in Italy in 2008
after his World Cup overall victory van
der holle will be a heavily marked man
know where the rider will want to take
the Dutchman on to the last lap as he's
rarely beaten in a sprint if the race is
fast or if the others aren't fast enough
to shed him before the final Road
section the money will be on Van der
Hart where were you cheering for in hog
Hyde this year comment below and let us
know don't forget to subscribe
to GCN on youtube for results an
analysis from the races the popular
image of cyclocross is one of a rider
being forced to carriers bike up a muddy
bank in the middle of winter this gets
most things right cross is predominantly
a winter sport and cross court